>> Maximiliano Flirtman: So far, the only
thing that we have is the model here.
Why are we creating the model?
Because we want the handler
to actually grab from a URL,
grab the movies and
download the movies in JSON.
Okay, so
we are we are now coding the back In, and
the whole idea of making a model
is that we want to have an API,
a Restful API, that can let us
take the movies from the server.
And the server is taking
that from database.
For that, we use handlers.
So we need a handler.
So far, we are using the server
only to serve static files.
We need to move one step further and
actually create a handler for,
for example, movies.
Let's start with movies,
and then we do the others.
So where are the handlers right now?
They are at main.go.
In our main.go I have only one handler.
This is our handler for
static files, okay?
The frontend.
So now we need another handler
to actually do something else.
But for that, instead of writing
everything here as a function,
maybe it's a good idea to create
something like the file server.
The file server has its own I mean,
it's from the from go,
from the standard library.
It's actually doing its
stuff somewhere else.
So something similar when you hear.
So I'm going to create another package for
my handlers.
Remember, what's a handler?
It's a value that will handle
one particular type of URL,
in this case, the API for movies, okay?
So my goal is something like this.
I wanna type localhost
8080/api/movies/,top.
And then when I get all the top movies,
okay, of course, now it's 404.
So my goal is to see a JSON file there
with the top movies from the database.
So I need a handler, and
we're going to write that
handler directly in another value, okay?
So that's why I'm creating a package for
a folder for
my handlers, and within that package
I'm going to create a movie,
can be handler or handlers.go, it depends.
Why?
Because we can use the same file to write
different handlers because maybe we
have the top movies, we have another
handler for one movie, so give me
the digits of only one movie and so on.
So we create package handlers.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: And
the whole idea here is that I'm going
to create a type movie handler.
There is an instructor.
For now, I will keep that empty.
Remember, why are we doing this?
This is how you create something
similar to object, you can go.
So I'm creating a movie handler object.
Let's say it's called value,
it's a structure but
let's say object for now, okay?
It's pretty bad that term from
a goal point of view, okay?
We don't use the idea of objects but
anyway.
So then,
do you remember how to create methods?
How to create methods in structures,
in Go?
Does anyone remember?
>> Speaker 2: You wrapped the handler
before the function name.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: So
it's a function.
So we create a function, okay?
For example,
we can create the function GetTopMovies,
okay, by the way, handlers,
every HTTP handler,
has the same signature.
It has an HTTP.Rsponsewriter and
an HTTP.Request that is
actually a pointer, oops.
What is this?
Well, the request is the incoming
data that is coming from from
the from the client.
So you have the user agent,
the headers, what's the URL?
Cookies, everything that
the client is sending.
And we use the writer to send
data back to the client.
So we get the data, we send data back,
that's how that works.
But this is just a public function
in a package, it's not a method.
As he was mentioning, to actually
make it a method of my movie handler,
I need I have this special
syntax of adding here,
let's call it h,
a pointer to a movie handler.
So now this is my signature, okay?
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Why the Pointer and
HTTP request.
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: This
is how that works.
I mean, this is how HTTP handler works.
So let me explain that in
a second when we go back here to
the main when we are sending handle,
handle has the the pattern and
then a handler that
come from HTTP handler.
When we look at that HTTP handler, see if
I can get into, it has that interface.
So the quick answer is, because that's
the interface that we must match.
So if not, it's not gonna work, okay?
The only way to create a handler
is to follow that interface,
and that interface is receiving
a pointer to their request.
The whole deal here is that Go or, I mean,
the developers of Go, who coded that part,
they didn't want to send you a copy,
a clone of the request.
Because if there is no pointer here,
when they're sending you a request,
it's creating a clone, another copy.
And it doesn't make sense, so
they're sending the argument as a pointer,
as a reference, and not as a value.
Does it make sense?
That's why?
So the short answer is
that it's mandatory.
Okay, so that's why we have to
follow exactly that interface.
So that's the interface that
I'm following here, okay?
So what's the whole idea where, for now,
I will just instead of
going to the database,
let's try to test this step by step,
like baby steps.
And we're going to create
a list of movies here.
So I'm going to create
an array of models.movie.
Remember you create things
like this with curly braces,
and then I can create
a movie with an ID one TMDB.
I'm going to just fake,
you have one to copy and
paste if you want from with me,
but you got the idea, right?
Remember this is the automatic initializer
that we have available for this.
We have release here,
the genres it's another collection.
Remember to use here, Cali braces.
We have an ID and a name
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: And so on.
We have keywords,
>> Maximiliano Flirtman: We can add
keywords or not.
And we have the Castings,
it's a collection of actors.
So, we can create an actor,
just one, name Max.
I'm an actor for the movie, okay?
So this is one movie and
of course I can another movie just for
dummy data to do a baby step.
I will just change this
back to the future.
Think it was 90,
I think it was 84 the release year,
not the year where the movies, but
84 or 85 doesn't matter, okay?
So I have that array of movies and
what I need, I wanna write this, okay?
So I wanna write this to the output.
I wanna send this JSON to the output.
Who is the output, the client?
Who is the client?
In this case, my browser.
Okay, so
I want to see that in JSON format, okay?
That's like my my first step,
to send JSON, I need to say so, how?
I need to talk to the writer.
Remember the writer is this argument W and
I need to talk to the headers.
I need to set the header.
And the header this is
HTTP spec content type.
And the mini type is application/json.
This is how the browser will know or
the client, it can be the browser,
it can be my app, will know that we
are actually sending JSON, okay?
That's the first step.
Then we need to encode our model,
our value,
the collection of two movies that I have,
or three movies that I have into JSON.
Fortunately, we have JSON compatibility
in Go, a standard library, okay?
We can talk to JSON, the JSON package.
And what we're going to do with JSON is
create a new encoder over the writer.
So we're going to say, hey,
what I want is to send JSON to the output.
Does that make sense?
So I don't need the JSON as a string
first, I don't wanna look at the string.
I just wanna,
once you are creating a JSON,
just send it directly to the output,
so to the writer, and
that's the new encoder, and
we're going to encode the data.
The data is actually movies, okay?
So I'm sending movies.
The problem is that this
can lead to an error, okay?
So it can return an error.
So what happens?
Maybe because it couldn't
convert that into JSON,
something was wrong,
something happened, okay?
So that's the moment where I
need to do something else.
The most common way to solve this
problem in Go is to ask for this.
I'm not sure if you have seen this in
Go when you're using if conditionals,
you can have more than one expression.
In that case, the last one is
the condition, the Boolean condition.
For example, in this case, I can just
go and say if the error is not nil,
that means there was an error a problem,
okay?
We will load this, okay?
Something like that.